## Introduction.{page_break_before}

The Teton Range is the defining feature of Grand Teton National Park (GRTE), which lies just south of Yellowstone in the north-western corner of Wyoming.
The 50-mile-long range runs approximately north to south, with elevations ranging from 6,400 feet in Jackson Valley to ~13,700 feet at the top of the Grand Teton.
Its iconic landscape, of jagged peaks and gentle valleys, has been sculpted by glaciers over hundreds of thousands of years. 
Since the end of the Little Ice Age, Teton ice has rapidly disappeared. 
This study investigates the change in extent and volume of the park's glaciers from the Little Ice Age to 2021.

These glaciers were first noted in western scientific publications between 1870 and the early 1930s, mapped by the U.S. Geological and Geographical Survey of the Territories (also known as the Hayden Survey) and later in more detail by mountaineer and geologist Frithof Fryxell (@doi: doi.org/10.1086/624317). 
The park currently recognizes 11 named glaciers, although some debate remains whether some of these were, or still are, large enough bodies of ice to be classified glaciologically as a glacier.
In this paper, we discuss the size and estimated volume of these glaciers, but for ease of understanding, will refer to all bodies of ice as glaciers unless otherwise explicitly noted.

The eleven glaciers in GRTE - Middle Teton, Teton, Teepe, Schoolroom, Petereson, Skillet, Falling Ice, West Triple, Middle Triple, East Triple, and Glacier Peak -- subsist on and in north- and east-facing walls and valleys scattered throughout the park, protected by steep terrain that shades the ice surface from sun and provides extra accumulation through avalanching and wind-blown snow. 
Terminal and lateral moraines produced during the Little Ice Age (1300-1850, cite) delineate these glaciers, as well as trace the ghosts of those that have melted into ice fields, rock glaciers, and rock strewn landscapes.
These moraines can give us an estimate of ice volume at the peak of the Little Ice Age, around 1850 ==(cite)==
Initial retreat of glaciers in nearby ranges has been attributed to natural climactic recovery from the LIA (@doi: https://doi.org/10.1080/15230430.2019.1634443).
Since then, glacial change has been attributed to anthropogenic climate change (@doi: https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1254702) and topographical influences (@doi: https://doi.org/10.5194/tc-12-2109-2018)

Compared to their neighbors in the north (Glacier National Park and Yellowstone National Park), south (the Rockies), and east (Wind River Range), Teton glaciers have been far less studied. 
As significant members of the visual, recreational, ecological, and geological systems of the Teton Range, as well as a connective geographical link between the better studied Rocky Mountain, Wind River, and Glacier National Park glaciers, an understanding of glacial change in the Tetons can help us understand past events and future implications throughout the park and beyond.
This work publishes for the first time a record of: Little Ice Age glacial geological records, a time series of aerial and volumetric change for all eleven glaciers from 1950-2021, and in-situ observations of Middle Teton Glacier from 2016-2021. 

