The Teton Range in northwest Wyoming is home to 11 named glaciers and a handful of permanent snow and icefields. 
About 40 miles long and 10 miles across, the short and narrow high mountain range is a geological continuation of the Rocky Mountains that extends into the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem. 
The range is bordered by other mountain ranges: Absaroka Range to the northwest, Wind River Range to the southeast, and the Wyoming Range to the south. 
Additionally, the Teton Range is flanked by flat-floored valleys, with Jackson Hole to the east and by Teton Basin to the west. 
The highest peaks of the Teton Range lie near the eastern edge of the fault-block mountain range, while broader and gentler slopes gradually decline into Idaho farmland.

Since the end of the Little Ice Age (~1850-1870), glaciers in this range have retreated or disappeared entirely [@doi: https://doi.org/10.1080/02723646.1991.10642421]. 
Geologic remnants of these glaciers, in the form of moraines and trimlines, can be mapped throughout the park. 
The surviving glaciers have primarily east- and north-facing aspects, and are, for the most part, topographically protected by large rock walls. 
These walls provide both steep surfaces for snow to accumulate and avalanche from, and protect the glacier from wind scouring. 

While changes to nearby glaciers have been studied and well documented [@doi:10.3133/fs20193068; @doi:10.1080/02723646.1991.10642421; @doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/S1040-6182(96)00026-2], the Teton Range glaciers have been relatively understudied. 
This builds on surveys by Fryxell [@doi:doi.org/10.1086/624317], Reed (1964, 1965), Reynolds et al. (2012), and Edmunds et al. [@doi:10/bxswd8]. Much of this archive has either not been published (Reynolds), not been peer-reviewed (Fryxell 1935, Reed 1964, Reed 1965, Reynolds 2012), and/or did not publish the data used or generated by the study (Fryxell 1935, Edmunds 2012). 
This paper aims to collect and publish qualitative and quantitative records of glacial change in the Tetons over the last 150-170 years, from the end of the LIA to 2021, including moraine and trimline outlines for the 11 remaining named glaciers, in situ data collected by the park service between 2016 and 2021, and updated applied methods for generating digital elevation models applied across all 11 glaciers.
