## Digital Elevation Model timeseries

Digital Elevation Models were generated using HIPP (CITE) and HSFM (CITE). 
These were then differenced to obtain a time series of ice volume change, which was compared to a) modeled change and b) change in aerial extent.

HIPP was used to download and pre-process aerial imagery from USGS's Earth Explorer tool. 
Using the Earth Explorer API, we downloaded all a) aerial imagery single frame, b) NAIP, c) NAPP, d) NHAP, and e) declassified spy satellite data between 1950 and present day taken in August or September to minimize snow coverage.
Each batch of photos was then separated by roll and year. 
Fiduciaries were extracted from each set of imagery.
A specific point in each fiduciary was then identified in each image; each image included four to eight fiduciaries. 
These were used to find the center point of the image, and each image was cropped around the center point so that images in each roll and year were identical sizes.

HSFM used these cropped images for generating the digital elevation models and orthoimages. 
[metashape pro extracted point clouds, etc]
[asp stitched rotated, stretched, etc images together]
[rgl and nlcd used to mask glaciers and vegetation]
[how does the dem deal with these points after masking?]

Lidar flown in 2014 was used as the basis for DEM differencing (CITE). The lidar was acquired between August 27 and September 10 in 2014 using a Leica ALS70 500 kHz Multiple Pulses in Air (MPiA) lidar sensor and can be accessed [here](https://prd-tnm.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html?prefix=StagedProducts/Elevation/metadata/WY_Grand_Teton_and_National_Elk_Refuge_LiDAR_15/WY_GrandTetonElkRefuge_2014). We used the processed point cloud to maximize resolution; a 1-m DEM product is also available.

