## In-Situ Data

To better understand the change in ice volume and extent, surveys have been conducted at Middle Teton glacier (MTG) since 2016.
MTG was chosen as the benchmark glacier for the Tetons in 2016 owing to its size (second largest) and ease of access, accessible from the trail to the Lower Saddle, where the most popular routes to climb the Grand begin.

Surveys taken across MTG include surface elevation surveys, ablation stake installation and monitoring, accumulation surveys through snow pits and snow probe surveys, and most recently, ground-penetrating radar. 
While most of the focus of the glacier monitoring program in the Tetons is on Middle Teton Glacier, timelapse cameras and air temperature sensors are also installed at sites near four other glaciers across the park.

### Surface Elevation Surveys
At the end of the ablation season (usually early September) a team of park scientists and climbing rangers conducts a surface elevation survey and terminus survey to measure high resolution changes in surface height and terminus location. 
The first surface elevation survey was conducted in 2015 with 63 ungridded points; these are excluded from our analysis.
Between 2016 and 2021, the survey expanded to cover a majority of Middle Teton Glacier.
Testing testing testing testing

On-glacier surveyors followed a pre-determined grid ==(add point spacing)== as closely as possible; slight deviations in the surveys avoid crevassing and rockfall hazards.
Each gridpoint is measured using a ==(add handheld gps info)==
Four team members participate in the survey; two at higher elevations and two at lower elevations.

Post collection, the surface elevation data is processed in GPS Pathfinder Office. 
A real-time differential correction is applied to the data using the National Geodetic Survey site in Driggs, ID (IDDR) for 2016-2018 and 2020-2021. F
or the 2019 survey data, we used the National Geodetic Survey site in Kelly, WY (TSWY) as data from IDDR was not available.
All GPS data uses the UTM 12 North NAD 1983 coordinate reference system unless otherwise specified.

==(note this paragraph may change: updating protocol to re-process in Matlab)==



### Ablation Stake Surveys
Ablation stakes are deployed yearly on Middle Teton Glacier. 
One-meter sections of PVC pipe are pre-cut, labeled with the site identifier, year, and stake section number, and connected via accessory cord.
The appropriate length for an ablation stake was site-specific, determined by adding the amount of accumulation measured by snow probe to the maximum estimated ice ablation and an additional two meters for anchoring; most stakes were 10-13 m in length. 
A Heucke steam drill [@doi:10.1111/j.0435-3676.1999.00088.x] was used to drill the hole for installing the stakes. 
Stakes were installed in late May/early June in 2019, 2020, and 2021 to measure surface ablation and surface velocity and their locations were marked using a Trimble (CITE). 
Most sites were revisited twice throughout the season to measure ablation and take a GPS reading. 
Sites were visited in subsequent seasons if they were able to be located. 
The locations of the stakes can be found in Figure 1, and the surface velocities and ablation measurements are in Figure 2.
ADD DATA PROCESSING - Joni to help with this

### Accumulation surveys
To estimate seasonal accumulation, the park collected snow probe measurements and digs two snow pits at the end of the accumulation season (late May - early June) in 2019, 2020, and 2021. 
Snow probe measurements are taken at 25 m spacing along lines perpendicular to glacier flow/steepness; lines were separated by ~50m as conditions allowed. 
Surveyors noted the type of transition as either firn or glacial ice. 
In addition, two snow pits are dug down to the previous year's summer surface at the location of the highest and lowest ablation stakes. 
Snow density is sampled every 0.5m depth to the bottom of the pit using a 500cc density cutter and a scale. 

### Seasonal timelapse imagery and repeat photo points
Timelapse cameras (cite) are installed seasonally at five of the eleven glaciers: Middle Teton, Teton Glacier, Falling Ice Glacier, Peterson Glacier, and Schoolroom Glacier. 
Cameras are mounted on boulders or trees using pitons and/or webbing at the beginning of the summer season, usually in June the melting snowpack clears trails for travel.
They are set to record four images per day at 1100, 1130, 1200, and 1230. 
Cameras are recovered at the end of the season.
Images are then selected to maximize visibility of the terminus and snowline while minimizing shadow and shadow movement. 
If possible, images from the same sun angle are chosen throughout the summer. 
Usually this means images near the beginning of the season are selected from 1230 or 1200, and images from later in the season are chosen from 1100 or 1130.
If weather or other elements obscure the image, an image from a different (preferably, neighboring) time is chosen instead.
Timelapse videos are compiled using Windows Movie Maker.

Repeat photos of Middle Teton, Teton Glacier, Falling Ice Glacier, Peterson Glacier, Schoolroom Glacier, Teepe Glacier, and Glacier Peak are also taken every summer season at set locations (FIGURE?) using a camera, tablet, or smartphone. 
These photos are used to capture a different angle from the timelapse cameras or to track glaciers where no timelapse imagery is available.

Skillet and the three Triple glaciers are not actively monitored by the park.

### Air temperature sensors
Air temperature sensors (HOBO Pendant Temperature Data Logger) are installed yearly at five glaciers (Middle Teton, Teton Glacier, Falling Ice Glacier, Peterson Glacier, and Schoolroom Glacier) as well as in non-glaciated canyons and along sites at the base of the range (FIGURE?).
The air temperature sensors are calibrated yearly to a National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) certified device in both room-temperature and ice baths to verify that the loggers remained within  +/- 0.53°C to the NIST device reading from 0° to 50°C. 
The loggers are programmed to record data once an hour pre-deployment and mounted on trunks 10-15 feet above the ground within tree stands with solar radiation shielding following Holden and others (2013) [@doi: 10.1016/j.agrformet.2013.06.011].

### Ground-penetrating radar
@dan
