## Model Choice

We use a simple slab model to estimate glacier thickness, using Nye's 1952 formulation. 
Since the 1950s, this shear-stress-based model has been expanded to include variable basal shear stress, valley-wall drag, a shape factor, and more.



Instead of absolute ice thickness estimates, we aim to investigate change in ice thickness. 
Lacking surface mass balance measurements (few measurements taken, except, as outlined above, between 2016 and the present day), surface velocity (these glaciers are, in general, too small for most satellite data to be used to track surface features, so the only measured velocity data is from ablation stakes left on Middle Teton Glacier between 2019 and the present day), and weather data or reanalysis (sparse measurements in the Tetons likely do not reflect the surface mass additions of avalanching and wind-blown snow), we are left with glacial outlines and DEMs (LiDAR and HSFM, see Sections XX and XX respectively) as the only source of information for input into our models. 
The simplest approach to generating ice thickness estimates of alpine glaciers is an area-scaling approach (see Bahr 2015 [@doi:10.1002/2014RG000470] for an in-depth review). 
However, in general, area-volume scaling takes characteristic values from across sets of glaciers (under similar conditions), and is not generally applied to individual glaciers [@doi:10.1002/2014RG000470].
With only 11 glaciers, we cannot confidently generate a range-wide scaling.
Additionally, the digital elevation models from HSFM and LiDAR provide us with more information about surface slope and the surrounding topography.
Farinotti et al. (2017) [@doi:10.5194/tc-11-949-2017] identified five general modeling approaches for estimating ice thickness: minimization-based, mass conserving, shear-stress based, velocity based, and alternate (e.g. neural network) approaches. 
Of these, the two approaches that only require glacial outlines and DEMs as input are the mass-conservation- and shear-stress-based models. 
Two models from each approach fit our criteria: Farinotti et al. 2009 [@doi:10.3189/002214309788816759] (the ITEM model) and an extension of this model, and Huss and Farinotti 2014 [@doi:10.1029/2012JF002523] (HF-model), GlabTop by Linsbauer et al. (2012) [@doi:10.1029/2011JF002313] and GlabTop2 by Frey et al. (2014) [@doi:10.5194/tc-8-2313-2014].
Huss and Farinotti (2014) and Frey et al. (2014) extend their counterparts without fundamentally changing the physics, so we considered these as possible approaches.
We added the simple Nye 1952 approach with the Nye 1965 scaling factor, and Clarke's approach, to the pool of possibilities.

showed in their intercomparison project that the inclusion of more data (e.g. surface velocities, SMB measurements) did not, on average, improve modeled glacier thickness estimates. 
The models that performed the best and only used OL and DEM information included two mass-conserving models and two shear-stress-based models: Farinotti et al. 2009 [@doi:10.3189/002214309788816759] (the ITEM model) and an extension of this model, and Huss and Farinotti 2014 [@doi:10.1029/2012JF002523] (HF-model), GlabTop by Linsbauer et al. (2012) [@doi:10.1029/2011JF002313] and GlabTop2 by Frey et al. (2014) [@doi:10.5194/tc-8-2313-2014].
Huss and Farinotti (2014) and Frey et al. (2014) extend their counterparts without fundamentally changing the physics, so we considered these two possible approaches.



In Nye 1952, we obtain the approach used in this paper, which assumes a perfectly plastic model with no topographical influence.


